doc: add release notes for NCS 2.0.0 (#7723)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/releases/release-notes-2.0.0.rst

SEGGER Embedded Studio Nordic Edition is no longer tested and recommended for new projects.

Supported modem firmware
************************

See `Modem firmware compatibility matrix`_ for an overview of which modem firmware versions have been tested with this version of the |NCS|.

Use the latest version of the nRF Programmer app of `nRF Connect for Desktop`_ to update the modem firmware.
See :ref:`nrf9160_gs_updating_fw_modem` for instructions.

Modem-related libraries and versions
====================================

.. list-table:: Modem-related libraries and versions
   :widths: 15 10
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Library name
     - Version information
   * - Modem library
     - `Changelog <Modem library changelog for v2.0.0_>`_
   * - LwM2M carrier library
     - `Changelog <LwM2M carrier library changelog for v2.0.0_>`_

Known issues
************

Known issues are only tracked for the latest official release.
See `known issues for nRF Connect SDK v2.0.0`_ for the list of issues valid for the latest release.

Changelog
*********

The following sections provide detailed lists of changes by component.

> Application development
> =======================
> 
> * Fixed an issue with |NCS| Toolchain delimiter handling on MacOS, which could in special situations result in the build system not being able to properly locate the correct program needed.
> 
> Boards
> ======
> 
> * Added necessary reset functionality for using the nRF52840 SoC on the Thingy:91 as a Bluetooth controller.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Application development
=======================

This section provides lists of changes related to :ref:`ug_app_dev`.

Board support
-------------

* Added necessary reset functionality for using the nRF52840 SoC on the Thingy:91 as a Bluetooth controller.

Build system
-------------

* Fixed an issue with |NCS| Toolchain delimiter handling on MacOS, which could in special situations result in the build system not being able to properly locate the correct program needed.

```
Technically speaking, we're mirroring the doc hierarchy from the menu on the left in the release notes, so I'm trying to do this with this edit, just for consistency.

* :ref:`ble_nrf_dm` sample:

  * Added support for the nRF52832 device.

* :ref:`peripheral_ancs_client` sample:

  * Fixed handling of the empty Generic Attribute Service.

Bluetooth mesh samples
----------------------

* Updated all samples to use the :ref:`partition_manager`, replacing the use of the Device Tree Source flash partitions.
* :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_sensor_server` sample:

  * Definitions for sensor callbacks now include the :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_srv` context.

nRF9160 samples
---------------

* Added:

  * :ref:`nrf_cloud_rest_device_message` sample, demonstrating how to send an arbitrary device message with the nRF Cloud REST API.
  * :ref:`modem_callbacks_sample` sample, showcasing initialization and de-initialization callbacks.
  * :ref:`nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service` sample, demonstrating a simple but robust integration of location services, FOTA, sensor sampling, and more.
  * Shell functionality to HTTP Update samples.
  * :ref:`nrf_cloud_rest_cell_pos_sample` sample, demonstrating how to use the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_rest` library to perform cellular positioning requests.
  * :ref:`ciphersuites` sample, demonstrating how to use TLS ciphersuites.

* Updated:

>   * :ref:`secure_partition_manager` (rather than TF-M) is enabled by default for the applications and samples that support Thingy:91.

Reviewer: This could be merged into one bullet.

* Added :ref:`bt_fast_pair_provision_script`.

* :ref:`partition_manager`:

  * Added the :file:`ncs/nrf/subsys/partition_manager/pm.yml.pgps` file.
  * Added the :file:`ncs/nrf/subsys/partition_manager/pm.yml.emds` file.

MCUboot
=======

The MCUboot fork in |NCS| (``sdk-mcuboot``) contains all commits from the upstream MCUboot repository up to and including ``e86f575f68fdac2cab1898e0a893c8c6d8fd0fa1``, plus some |NCS| specific additions.

The code for integrating MCUboot into |NCS| is located in the :file:`ncs/nrf/modules/mcuboot` folder.

The following list summarizes both the main changes inherited from upstream MCUboot and the main changes applied to the |NCS| specific additions:

* Added :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF53_ENFORCE_IMAGE_VERSION_EQUALITY` to attach the dependencies between application and network core images.
  This option links the upgrade images in such a way that either both or none is applied.
* Added support for the Dual-slot execute-in-place (XIP) feature in the |NCS| build system.
  See the :file:`ncs/nrf/tests/modules/mcuboot/direct_xip` test project for an example of how to leverage this feature in your application.

> * boot_serial: Adapt to Zephyr's new CRC APIs (boot_serial implements the serial recovery),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``boot_serial``: Adapt to Zephyr's new CRC APIs (boot_serial implements the serial recovery).
```
OR
```suggestion
* Adapted ``boot_serial`` to Zephyr's new CRC APIs (boot_serial implements the serial recovery).
```

> * zephyr/boot_serial_extension: use ``BOOT_LOG`` instead of ``LOG_`` (boot_serial_extension implements the serial recovery extension).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Modified ``zephyr/boot_serial_extension`` to use ``BOOT_LOG`` instead of ``LOG_`` (``boot_serial_extension`` implements the serial recovery extension).
```

> * Loader was reworked so it allows larger minimum flash write size (was 8 B, became 32 B).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Loader was reworked so it allows larger minimum flash write size (was 8 B, now 32 B).
```

> * boot_serial: zephyr: Add optional timeout to enter serial recovery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added optional timeout to enter serial recovery for ``zephyr`` under ``boot_serial``.
```
boot_serial: zephyr:?

  See :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BOOT_SERIAL_WAIT_FOR_DFU`.

> * zephyr: Use a smaller SHA-256 implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Modified ``zephyr`` to use a smaller SHA-256 implementation.
```

> * boot_serial: Added support for the echo command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added support for the echo command to ``boot_serial``.
```
``boot_serial`` entries could be grouped together.

  See :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BOOT_MGMT_ECHO`.

> * single loader: fixed image decryption for any SoC flash of the pages with size not fitting in 1024 B.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Modified the single loader to fix image decryption for any SoC flash of the pages with size not fitting in 1024 B.
```

The SDK includes open source projects (TF-M, MCUboot, OpenThread, Matter, and the Zephyr RTOS), which are continuously integrated and re-distributed with the SDK.

Release notes might refer to "experimental" support for features, which indicates that the feature is incomplete in functionality or verification, and can be expected to change in future releases.
The feature is made available in its current state though the design and interfaces can change between release tags.
The feature will also be labeled with "EXPERIMENTAL" in Kconfig files to indicate this status.
Build warnings will be generated to indicate when features labeled EXPERIMENTAL are included in builds unless the Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_WARN_EXPERIMENTAL` is disabled.

Highlights
**********

* Simplified Software License Report generation is now possible for any nRF Connect SDK project.
  See :ref:`sbom documentation <west_sbom>` for more information.
* The Zephyr SDK toolchain replaces the GNU ARM Embedded toolchain.
* Trusted Firmware M (TF-M) replaces the Secure Partition Manager (SPM) for secure image firmware.
  TF-M is now enabled by default for most nRF9160 and nRF5340 applications and samples.

>   See <<release notes link>> and <<known issues>> for details.

Author: yes

* Added experimental Bluetooth LE Audio support, including an application for the nRF5340 Audio DK.
* The SoftDevice Controller is now Bluetooth v5.3 qualified.
* Improved DFU over Bluetooth Low Energy (SMP server improvements).
* Support for Thread v1.2 is no longer experimental. HomeKit over Thread and Matter over Thread use Thread v1.2 libraries by default now.
* Support for the Zigbee Cluster Library specification v8 (ZCL 8) and Base Device Behavior specification v3.0.1 (BDB 3.0.1) is no longer experimental.
  ZCL 8 and BDB 3.0.1 libraries are now used by default in Zigbee samples.
* Updated Zephyr LwM2M stack to v1.1, which provides extended commands and options for more efficient data transmission.
* Added nRF Cloud Location Services support in the AVSystem's Coiote LwM2M server.
* Added power consumption optimization for poor satelite coverage when using GNSS.

> A <migration guide> is available for users moving from |NCS| v1.x to v2.x.

Author: yes

      * Universal hooks for Application Event Manager initialization, event submission, preprocessing, and postprocessing.
        This includes implementation of macros that register hooks, grouped as follows:

        * :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_ON_SUBMIT_REGISTER`, :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_ON_SUBMIT_REGISTER_FIRST`, :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_ON_SUBMIT_REGISTER_LAST`
        * :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_PREPROCESS_REGISTER`, :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_PREPROCESS_REGISTER_FIRST`, :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_PREPROCESS_REGISTER_LAST`
        * :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_POSTPROCESS_REGISTER`, :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_POSTPROCESS_REGISTER_FIRST`, :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_POSTPROCESS_REGISTER_LAST`

    * Updated:

      * Renamed Event Manager to Application Event Manager.

  * :ref:`app_event_manager_profiler_tracer`:

    * Updated:

      * The library is no longer directly referenced from the Application Event Manager.
        Instead, it uses the Application Event Manager hooks to connect with the manager.

  * :ref:`esb_readme`:

    * Fixed a compilation error for nRF52833.

>   * :ref:`partition_manager`:

Author: yes, moved

      * Support for the combined application and network core updates for the nRF5340 SoC.

    * Updated:

      * Download logic to use the :ref:`lib_dfu_multi_image` library API and image structure.
      * The image generation script by introducing the sub-element structure inside the Zigbee OTA image.
        Enable :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_ZIGBEE_FOTA_GENERATE_LEGACY_IMAGE_TYPE` to generate images compatible with previous |NCS| releases.
      * Default value of the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_ZIGBEE_FOTA_IMAGE_TYPE` to 0x0141.
      * Setting of the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF53_ENFORCE_IMAGE_VERSION_EQUALITY` for nRF5340 SoC to ensure integrity of the upgrade image.

    * Removed:

      * The :c:enum:`ZIGBEE_FOTA_EVT_ERASE_PENDING` and :c:enum:`ZIGBEE_FOTA_EVT_ERASE_DONE` events.

  * Fixed:

    * An issue where printing binding table containing group-binding entries results in corrupted output.
    * An issue where Zigbee shell coordinator would not form a new network after the factory reset operation.

sdk-nrfxlib
-----------

> See the changelog for each library in the :doc:`nrfxlib documentation <nrfxlib:README>` for additional information.

Reviewer 2: I think that for crypto we can have the same style of  updates as the 1.9 release:

`* Updated:

  * :ref:`crypto`:

    * The Oberon library now  supports PKCS#7 padding with CBC  and 16 bytes IV with GCM mode in PSA APIs
    * Updated:

      * :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_cc3xx_platform_readme` to v0.9.14.
      * :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_cc3xx_mbedcrypto_readme` to v0.9.14.
      * :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_oberon_readme` to v3.0.11.`

Reviewer 3: Yes, this should suffice

Author: done

Reviewer 4: In addition, there are mainly these highlights:
nrf_dm / nordic distance toolbox:
- now supports nrf52832 and nrf5340.
softdevice controller:
- added support for connectionless angle of arrival (AoA) transmitter
- added support for peripheral-initiated feature exchange
- added a nak_count field into QoS Connection event reports.

Scripts
=======

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`script <scripts>`.

* Added new ``west ncs-sbom`` command that generates :ref:`Software Bill of Materials <west_sbom>`.
* Added :ref:`bt_fast_pair_provision_script`.

MCUboot
=======

The MCUboot fork in |NCS| (``sdk-mcuboot``) contains all commits from the upstream MCUboot repository up to and including ``e86f575f68fdac2cab1898e0a893c8c6d8fd0fa1``, plus some |NCS| specific additions.

The code for integrating MCUboot into |NCS| is located in the :file:`ncs/nrf/modules/mcuboot` folder.

The following list summarizes both the main changes inherited from upstream MCUboot and the main changes applied to the |NCS| specific additions:

* Added :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF53_ENFORCE_IMAGE_VERSION_EQUALITY` to attach the dependencies between application and network core images.
  This option links the upgrade images in such a way that either both or none is applied.
* Added support for the Dual-slot execute-in-place (XIP) feature in the |NCS| build system.
  See the :file:`ncs/nrf/tests/modules/mcuboot/direct_xip` test project for an example of how to leverage this feature in your application.

> 

Reviewer 5: Upgrades inherited from the upstream MCUboot
boot_serial: Adapt to Zephyr's new CRC APIs (boot_serial implements the serial recovery)
zephyr/boot_serial_extension: us BOOT_LOG instead of LOG_ (boot_serial_extension implements the serial recovery extension)
Loader was reworked so it allows larger minimum flash write size (was 8 B, became 32 B)
boot_serial: zephyr: Add optional timeout to enter serial recovery
zephyr: Use a smaller sha256 implementation
boot_serial: Added support for the echo command
single loader: fixed image decryption for any SoC flash of the pages size which not fitted in 1024 B
removed deprecated DT_CHOSEN_ZEPHYR_FLASH_CONTROLLER_LABEL
Fixed usage of CONFIG_LOG_IMMEDIATE

Reviewer 5: ref.: https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr/pull/46080

Author: done

  * :ref:`app_power_opt` with information on how to disable serial logging when using TF-M.
  * Replaced reference to Secure Partition Manager with reference to Trusted Firmware-M for multi-image project builds (nRF9160 samples) in :ref:`gs_programming`.
  * :ref:`gs_updating` with information about updating |VSC| and the toolchain.
  * :ref:`ug_nrf52` and :ref:`ug_nrf5340` with information about FOTA upgrades for Matter, Thread, and Zigbee.
  * :ref:`ug_matter_architecture` with updated protocol architecture diagram.
  * :ref:`app_memory` with sections for Matter and Zigbee.
  * :ref:`thread_ug_feature_updating_libs` to clarify the use, and added |VSC| instructions.
  * :ref:`ug_thread_communication` by moving it to a separate page instead of it being under :ref:`ug_thread_architectures`.
  * Added a note to several nRF Cloud samples using the `nRF Cloud REST API`_ indicating the need for valid and registered request signing credentials.
  * :ref:`thread_ot_memory` with definitions of variants listed on the tables.
  * :ref:`ug_nrf_cloud` with more information about security.

>   * :ref:`software_maturity` with a table detailing the differences between supported and experimental features.

Author: yes

.. _ncs_release_notes_200:

|NCS| v2.0.0 Release Notes
##########################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

|NCS| delivers reference software and supporting libraries for developing low-power wireless applications with Nordic Semiconductor products in the nRF52, nRF53, and nRF91 Series.
The SDK includes open source projects (TF-M, MCUboot, OpenThread, Matter, and the Zephyr RTOS), which are continuously integrated and re-distributed with the SDK.

Release notes might refer to "experimental" support for features, which indicates that the feature is incomplete in functionality or verification, and can be expected to change in future releases.
The feature is made available in its current state though the design and interfaces can change between release tags.
The feature will also be labeled with "EXPERIMENTAL" in Kconfig files to indicate this status.
Build warnings will be generated to indicate when features labeled EXPERIMENTAL are included in builds unless the Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_WARN_EXPERIMENTAL` is disabled.

Highlights
**********

> * Simplified Software License Report generation is now possible for any nRF Connect SDK project. See sbom documentation for more info.

Reviewer 6: Link for sbom documentation?
```suggestion
* Simplified Software License Report generation is now possible for any |NCS| project. See sbom documentation for more information.
```

Author: added

Boards
======

* Added necessary reset functionality for using the nRF52840 SoC on the Thingy:91 as a Bluetooth controller.

Protocols
=========

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`protocol <protocols>`.
See `Samples`_ for lists of changes for the protocol-related samples.

Bluetooth mesh
--------------

* Added :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_srv` context to relevant callbacks and APIs to help resolve the associated sensor model instance.
  For details, see `Bluetooth mesh samples`_ and `Bluetooth libraries and services`_.

See `Bluetooth mesh samples`_ for the list of changes for the Bluetooth mesh samples.

Matter
------

* The CHIP Tool controller is now the recommended controller for Matter.
  The documentation about :ref:`ug_matter_configuring_controller` has been updated accordingly.
  For more information about the CHIP Tool controller, read the :doc:`matter:chip_tool_guide` page in the Matter documentation.
* Added the :ref:`matter_window_covering_sample` sample, based on the Matter upstream sample.

See `Matter samples`_ for the list of changes for the Matter samples.

Matter fork
+++++++++++

> The Matter fork in the |NCS| (``sdk-connectedhomeip``) contains all commits from the upstream Matter repository up to, and including, ``25e241ebcbf11b1f63dbe25546b1f10219866ad0``.

Reviewer 6: The commit has to be verified.

Author: @LuDuda  please verify the Matter commit

Reviewer 7: This is correct.

Author: thanks

The following list summarizes the most important changes inherited from the upstream Matter:

* Added the Binding cluster and Groupcast communication to the Light Switch sample.
* Updated the nRF Connect platform by adding :file:`Kconfig.defaults`, :file:`Kconfig.mcuboot.defaults` and :file:`Kconfig.multiprotocol_rpmsg.defaults` files that contain the default configuration for all |NCS| samples.
* Added support for Thread Synchronized Sleepy End Devices.

Thread
------

* Added support for the Link Metrics and CSL Thread v1.2 features for the nRF53 Series devices.
* Removed support for the :ref:`thread_architectures_designs_cp_ncp` architecture and the related tools.

> * Memory requirements page shows requirements based on the configuration used for certification instead of minimal configuration which has been removed.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* :ref:`_thread_ot_memory` page shows requirements based on the configuration used for certification instead of minimal configuration, which has been removed.
```

Author: done

> * Updated "Configuring a radio co-processor" section on Thread Border Router page with the information about forcing Hardware Flow Control in J-Link.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Updated the :ref:`_ug_thread_tools_tbr_rcp` section in the :ref:`_ug_thread_tools_tbr` page with the information about forcing Hardware Flow Control in J-Link.
```

Author: done

* Updated nrfconnect/otbr docker.

See `Thread samples`_ for the list of changes for the Thread samples.

Zigbee
------

* Added:

>   * Support for nRF5340 DK (PCA10095) in :ref:`Zigbee light switch sample <zigbee_light_switch_sample>` with :ref:` Zigbee FOTA library <lib_zigbee_fota>` enabled.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  * Support for nRF5340 DK (PCA10095) in :ref:`zigbee_light_switch_sample` sample with :ref:` lib_zigbee_fota` library enabled.
```

Author: done

  * Production support for Weather Station application for Thingy:53.

* Updated:

  * Support for Zigbee Cluster Library ver8 (ZCL8).
    The support is not experimental anymore.
  * Support for Zigbee Base Device Behavior v3.0.1 (BDB 3.0.1).
    The support is not experimental anymore.

>   * :ref:`Zigbee FOTA library <lib_zigbee_fota>`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  * :ref:`lib_zigbee_fota` library.
```

Author: done

    For details, see `Libraries for Zigbee`_.
  * Zigbee Network Co-processor Host package to the new version v2.2.0.

>   * :ref:`Zigbee shell library <lib_zigbee_shell>`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  * :ref:`lib_zigbee_shell` library.
```

Author: done

See `Zigbee samples`_ for the list of changes for the Zigbee samples.

HomeKit
-------

* Added

  * Production support for Thread 1.2.
  * Support for 3-button actions (long press, short press, double press).
  * LED indicating BLE connectivity status.
  * Development support for OTA-DFU using the iOS Home App (over UARP - BLE and Thread).
  * LED output can be fully disabled via kConfig.

* Updated

  * Flash usage optimization for debug versions of samples and applications.
  * DFU mode can now be enabled by a button press.
  * CLI is no longer required for DFU configuration.
  * HAP_TESTING is now configurable via kConfig.

* Fixed

  * An issue where RTT logs did not work with the Light Bulb multiprotocol sample with DFU on nRF52840.
  * An issue where Nordic DFU was not compliant with HAP certification requirements.
  * An issue where a change in KVS key naming scheme caused an error for updated devices.
  * An issue where activating DFU caused increased power consumption.

Applications
============

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`application <applications>`.

nRF9160: Asset Tracker v2
-------------------------

* Added:

>   * Support for :ref:`Bosch Software Environmental Cluster (BSEC) library <bosch_software_environmental_cluster_library>` driver.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  * Support for :ref:`bosch_software_environmental_cluster_library`.
```

Author: done

  * Support for Indoor Air Quality (IAQ) readings retrieved from the BME680 sensor on Thingy:91.
    For more information, see the :ref:`asset_tracker_v2_sensor_module`.
  * Support for QEMU x86 emulation.
  * Support for the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_pgps` flash memory partition under certain conditions.
  * Support for :ref:`QoS` library to handle multiple in-flight messages for MQTT based cloud backends such as AWS IoT, Azure IoT Hub, and nRF Cloud.
  * Support for Lightweight Machine to Machine (LwM2M).
  * Support for filtering updates to cloud based on LTE connection evaluation (`AT%CONEVAL`_).

* Updated:

  * For nRF Cloud builds, the configuration section in the shadow is now initialized during the cloud connection process.

>   * The :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library can now handle modem FOTA updates if :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_FOTA` is enabled.

Reviewer 8: There was an important change as part of the P-GPS flash memory partition PR. This should be included in the release notes:

```suggestion
  * The :ref:`ug_bootloader` has been enabled by default. To diable, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SECURE_BOOT` Kconfig option to ``n``.
  * The :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library can now handle modem FOTA updates if :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_FOTA` is enabled.
```

Reviewer 9: small typo. Missing s in disable

Author: done

nRF9160: Serial LTE modem
-------------------------

* Added:

  * ``#XDFUGET`` and ``#XDFURUN`` AT commands to support the cloud-to-nRF52 DFU service.
  * Native TLS support to the HTTPS client.
  * ``#XCMNG`` command to support the use of native TLS.
  * ``#XSOCKETSELECT`` AT command to support multiple sockets in the Socket service.
  * ``#XPOLL`` AT command to poll selected or all sockets for incoming data.

* Updated:

  * Enhanced the ``#XHTTPCREQ`` AT command for better HTTP upload and download support.
  * Enhanced the ``#XSLEEP`` AT command to support data indication when idle.
  * Enhanced the MQTT client to support the reception of large PUBLISH payloads.
  * The :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library is now used directly instead of the Cloud API.

* Fixed:

  * The secondary MCUboot partition information is no longer passed to the P-GPS library if the P-GPS partition is enabled.

>   * The combined use of A-GPS and P-GPS so that ephemeris and almanac data is not requested via A-GPS, saving both power and bandwidth.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  * The combined use of A-GPS and P-GPS so that ephemeris and almanac data is not requested through A-GPS, saving both power and bandwidth.
```

Author: done

Thingy:53 Zigbee weather station
--------------------------------

* Added new :ref:`zigbee_weather_station_app` application.
* Fixed an issue where the buffer was being freed incorrectly.

Samples
=======

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`sample <sample>`, including protocol-related samples.
For lists of protocol-specific changes, see `Protocols`_.

Bluetooth samples
-----------------

* Added:

  * :ref:`peripheral_ams_client` sample.
  * :ref:`peripheral_fast_pair` sample.
    See :ref:`ug_bt_fast_pair` for details about this feature.

* Removed Peripheral Alexa Gadgets Bluetooth sample due to Amazon pausing support for the Gadgets ecosystem.

* Updated:

  * :ref:`direct_test_mode` sample:

    * Added the vendor-specific ``FEM_DEFAULT_PARAMS_SET`` command for restoring the default front-end module parameters.
    * Added possibility to build with the limited nRF21540 front-end module hardware pinout.
    * Fixed handling of the disable Constant Tone Extension command.
    * The front-end module test parameters are not set to their default value after the DTM reset command.
    * Changed the radio antennas array hardware description.

>       It is based now on the radio bindings instead of custom configuration.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
      It is now based on the radio bindings instead of custom configuration.
```

Author: done

  * :ref:`peripheral_hids_mouse` sample:

    * Increased the main stack size from 1024 to 1536 bytes.
    * Increased the stack size of the nRF RPC threads from 1024 to 1280 bytes.

  * :ref:`peripheral_uart` sample:

    * Fixed handling of RX buffer releasing in this sample and in the UARTE driver.
      Before this fix, the RX buffer might have been released twice by the main thread.

  * :ref:`central_uart` sample:

    * Fixed handling of RX buffer releasing in this sample and in the UARTE driver.
      Before this fix, the RX buffer might have been released twice by the main thread.
    * Added debug logs for the UART events.

  * :ref:`bluetooth_central_dfu_smp` sample:

    * Changed the current CBOR library from TinyCBOR to `zcbor`_.

  * :ref:`bluetooth-hci-lpuart-sample` sample:

    * Added support for Thingy:91.

>   * :ref:ble_nrf_dm`` sample:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  * :ref:`ble_nrf_dm` sample:
```

Author: done

  * BLE advertising interval has been increased from 100 ms to 300 ms for CLI sample when multiprotocol is enabled.
  * CoAP Client sample with Multiprotocol Bluetooth LE extension is now compatible with Bluetooth Central UART sample.

Matter samples
--------------

* Added release configuration for all samples.
* Added the :ref:`matter_window_covering_sample` sample, based on the Matter upstream sample.
* Updated:

  * Simplified the :file:`prj.conf` file of each sample by using the default configuration from the :file:`Kconfig.defaults` file in Matter upstream.
  * All ZAP configurations due to changes in Matter upstream.
  * :ref:`matter_template_sample`:

    * Added OTA DFU support.

  * :ref:`matter_light_switch_sample` sample:

    * Added:

      * A binding cluster to the sample.
      * Groupcast communication.
      * Overlay enabling low power mode support.

    * Updated the Pairing process to Binding process in the sample.

  * :ref:`matter_lock_sample` sample:

    * Added support for the Door Lock cluster, which replaced the previous temporary solution based on the On/Off cluster.

NFC samples
-----------

* Updated:

  * :ref:`nfc_tag_reader` sample:

>     * Skip NDEF content printing when message parsing returns an error.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    * Skips NDEF content printing when message parsing returns an error.
```

Author: done

--------------------------------

* Added:

  * :ref:`ams_client_readme` library.
  * :ref:`bt_fast_pair_readme`.

* Removed Alexa Gadgets Service library due to Amazon pausing support for the Gadgets ecosystem.

* Updated:

  * :ref:`gatt_dm_readme` library:

    * Added option to discover several service instances using the UUID.
    * Fixed discovery of empty services.

  * :ref:`bt_mesh` library:

    * Added:

      * :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_srv` context to the following API and callbacks:

        * :c:func:`sensor_column_encode` API.
        * :c:member:`get` and :c:member:`set` callbacks in :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_setting`.
        * :c:member:`get` callback in :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_series`.
        * :c:member:`get` callback in :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor`.

      * Shell commands for client models.

  * :ref:`ble_rpc` library:

    * Added host callback handlers for the ``write`` and ``match`` operations of the CCC descriptor.
    * Converted from `TinyCBOR` to `zcbor`.

    * Fixed:

      * Serialization of the write callback applied to the GATT attribute.
      * Serialization of the :c:func:`bt_gatt_service_unregister` function call.

>   * :ref:`lib_ram_pwrdn`

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  * :ref:`lib_ram_pwrdn` library:
```

Author: done

    * Added the :c:func:`power_up_unused_ram` API.

Bootloader libraries
--------------------

* :ref:`doc_bl_validation`:

  * Fixed an issue in :c:func:`bl_validate_firmware` where the reset vector validation check would not work properly.

Modem libraries
---------------

> * Added:
> 
>   * :ref:`lib_modem_antenna` library:
> 
>     * A new library for setting the antenna configuration on an nRF9160 DK or a Thingy:91.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Added :ref:`lib_modem_antenna` library, a new library for setting the antenna configuration on an nRF9160 DK or a Thingy:91.
```

Author: done

       * Support for Skyhook.

  * :ref:`lib_multicell_location` library:

    * Removed:

        * Support for Skyhook.

  * :ref:`nrf_modem_lib_readme` library:

    * Added:

      * :c:macro:`NRF_MODEM_LIB_ON_INIT` macro for compile-time registration of callbacks on modem initialization.
      * :c:macro:`NRF_MODEM_LIB_ON_SHUTDOWN` macro for compile-time registration of callbacks on modem de-initialization.
      * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_MODEM_LIB_LOG_FW_VERSION_UUID` to enable logging for both FW version and UUID at the end of the library initialization step.
      * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_MODEM_LIB_TRACE_THREAD_PROCESSING` to process modem traces in a thread (experimental).

    * Updated:

      * The modem fault handler's signature now takes a pointer as parameter to the :c:struct:`nrf_modem_fault_info` structure.
      * The modem fault handler callback is now configurable through the :c:struct:`nrf_modem_init_params_t` structure.
      * By default, the :c:func:`nrf_modem_fault_handler` function fault handler prints the modem fault.
        If any other handling is required, the :kconfig:option:`NRF_MODEM_LIB_ON_FAULT` Kconfig option must be set accordingly.

>     * Deprecated :c:func:`nrf_modem_lib_shutdown_wait` function, in favor of :c:macro:`NRF_MODEM_LIB_ON_INIT`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    * Deprecated the :c:func:`nrf_modem_lib_shutdown_wait` function, in favor of :c:macro:`NRF_MODEM_LIB_ON_INIT`.
```

Author: done

    * Added the :c:member:`set_native_tls` parameter in the configuration structure to configure native TLS support at runtime.

  * :ref:`lib_fota_download` library:

    * Added :c:func:`fota_download_s0_active_get` function that gets the active B1 slot.
    * Added :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_FOTA_DOWNLOAD_NATIVE_TLS` to configure the socket to be native for TLS instead of offloading TLS operations to the modem.

  * :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library:

    * Added:

      * :c:func:`nrf_cloud_bootloader_fota_slot_set` function that sets the active bootloader slot flag during bootloader FOTA updates.
      * :c:func:`nrf_cloud_pending_fota_job_process` function that processes the state of pending FOTA jobs.
      * :c:func:`nrf_cloud_handle_error_message` function that handles error message responses (MQTT) from nRF Cloud.

    * Updated:

      * Shadow data behavior during the connection process.
        The data is now sent to the application even if no ``"config"`` section is present.
      * The application can now send shadow updates earlier in the connection process.
      * nRF Cloud error message responses to location service MQTT requests are now handled.

>       * The value of the :kconfig:option:`NRF_CLOUD_HOST_NAME` option is now "mqtt.nrfcloud.com".

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
      * The value of the :kconfig:option:`NRF_CLOUD_HOST_NAME` option is now ``mqtt.nrfcloud.com``.
```

Author: done

    * Removed support for the Cloud API.

 * :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_pgps` library:

    * Added:

      * The passing of the current prediction, if one is available, along with the ``PGPS_EVT_READY`` event.
      * The following three ways to define the storage location in the flash memory:

        * A dedicated P-GPS partition, enabled with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PGPS_STORAGE_PARTITION` option.
        * The use of the MCUboot secondary partition as storage, enabled with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PGPS_STORAGE_MCUBOOT_SECONDARY` option.
        * An application-specific storage, enabled with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PGPS_STORAGE_CUSTOM` option.

 * :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_agps` library:

    * Fixed premature assistance suppression when the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_AGPS_FILTERED` option is enabled.
      Added a 10 minute margin of error to ensure A-GPS assistance is downloaded every two hours even if the modem requests assistance a little early.

* Removed:

  * Cloud API library.

Libraries for NFC
-----------------

* Updated:

  * :ref:`nfc_ndef_parser_readme`:

    * Updated:

>       * :c:func:`nfc_ndef_msg_parse` with a fix to the declaration, a new assertion to avoid a potential usage fault, and added a note in the function documentation.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
      * :c:func:`nfc_ndef_msg_parse` with a fix to the declaration, a new assertion to avoid a potential usage fault, and added a note in the API documentation.
```

Author: done

Other libraries
---------------

* Added:

  * :ref:`event_manager_proxy` library.
  * :ref:`QoS` library.
  * :ref:`emds_readme` library.
  * :ref:`lib_dfu_multi_image` library.

* Updated:

  * :ref:`app_event_manager`:

    * Added:

      * Event type flags to represent if event type should be logged, traced, and whether it has dynamic data.
        To update your application, pass a flag variable as a parameter in :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_TYPE_DEFINE` instead of ``init_log``.
        Use :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_FLAGS_CREATE` to set multiple flags:

        .. code-block:: c

           APP_EVENT_TYPE_DEFINE(my_event,
             log_my_event,
             &my_event_info,
             APP_EVENT_FLAGS_CREATE(APP_EVENT_TYPE_FLAGS_1, APP_EVENT_TYPE_FLAGS_2));

      * :c:func:`app_event_manager_event_size` function with corresponding :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_APP_EVENT_MANAGER_PROVIDE_EVENT_SIZE` option.

      * Universal hooks for Application Event Manager initialization, event submission, preprocessing, and postprocessing.
        This includes implementation of macros that register hooks, grouped as follows:

>         * :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_ON_SUBMIT_REGISTER`, :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_ON_SUBMIT_REGISTER_FIRST`,  :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_ON_SUBMIT_REGISTER_LAST`
>         * :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_PREPROCESS_REGISTER`, :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_PREPROCESS_REGISTER_FIRST`, :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_PREPROCESS_REGISTER_LAST`
>         * :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_POSTPROCESS_REGISTER`, :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_POSTPROCESS_REGISTER_FIRST`, :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_POSTPROCESS_REGISTER_LAST`

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
        * :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_ON_SUBMIT_REGISTER`, :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_ON_SUBMIT_REGISTER_FIRST`, :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_ON_SUBMIT_REGISTER_LAST`
        * :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_PREPROCESS_REGISTER`, :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_PREPROCESS_REGISTER_FIRST`, :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_PREPROCESS_REGISTER_LAST`
        * :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_POSTPROCESS_REGISTER`, :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_POSTPROCESS_REGISTER_FIRST`, :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_POSTPROCESS_REGISTER_LAST`
```

Author: done

    * Updated:

      * Renamed Event Manager to Application Event Manager.

  * :ref:`app_event_manager_profiler_tracer`:

    * Updated:

      * The library is no longer directly referenced from the Application Event Manager.
        Instead, it uses the Application Event Manager hooks to connect with the manager.

  * :ref:`esb_readme`:

    * Fixed a compilation error for nRF52833.

>   * Partition Manager:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  * :ref:`lib_spm`:
```

Author: Actually, this should be :ref:`partition_manager` , lib_spm is Secure Partition Manager ;) Changed.

    * Added the :file:`ncs/nrf/subsys/partition_manager/pm.yml.pgps` file.
    * Added the :file:`ncs/nrf/subsys/partition_manager/pm.yml.emds` file.

  * :ref:`nrf_profiler`:

      * Renamed Profiler to nRF Profiler.
      * Updated versions of required python modules (pynrfjprog and matplotlib)

  * :ref:`ei_wrapper`:

      * Added :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_EI_WRAPPER_PROFILING` for logging time of classifier execution.

>   * :ref:`lib_dfu_target`:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  * :ref:`lib_dfu_target` library:
```

Author: done

      * Fixed a NULL dereference bug, which could happen if :c:func:`settings_load` was called outside of the library.

  * :ref:`lib_hw_unique_key` library:

    * Fixed a bug where the random key would not be deleted from RAM after being generated and written.

Common Application Framework (CAF)
----------------------------------

* Added :ref:`caf_sensor_data_aggregator`, which buffers sensor events and sends them as packages to the listener.

Shell libraries
---------------

> * Added :ref:`shell_ipc_readme`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Added :ref:`shell_ipc_readme` library .
```

Author: done

Libraries for Zigbee
--------------------

* Updated:

>   * :ref:`lib_zigbee_application_utilities`:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  * :ref:`lib_zigbee_application_utilities` library:
```

Author: done

>     * Added factory reset functionality in :ref:`lib_zigbee_application_utilities`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    * Added factory reset functionality in :ref:`lib_zigbee_application_utilities` library.
```

Author: done

>   * :ref:`lib_zigbee_shell`:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  * :ref:`lib_zigbee_shell` library:
```

Author: done

    * Added:

      * ``nbr monitor`` shell command for monitoring the list of active Zigbee neighbors.
      * Set of ``zcl groups`` shell commands for managing Zigbee groups.
      * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_ZIGBEE_SHELL_ZCL_CMD_TIMEOUT` for timing out ZCL cmd commands.

    * Updated:

      * :ref:`lib_zigbee_shell` structure to make it an independent library.
      * File names ``zigbee_cli*`` and changed it to ``zigbee_shell*``.
      * Function names ``zigbee_cli*`` and changed it to ``zigbee_shell*``.
      * ``bdb factory_reset`` command.
        Now the command checks if the ZBOSS stack is started before performing the factory reset.
      * ``zcl cmd`` shell command extended to allow sending groupcasts.
      *  ``zdo`` shell commands extended to allow binding to a group address.
      * Internal context manager structures.

    * Fixed:

>       * The issue where the `zcl cmd` shell command was using the incorrect index of a context manager entry during cleanup after the command was sent.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
      * The issue where the ``zcl cmd`` shell command was using the incorrect index of a context manager entry during cleanup after the command was sent.
```

Author: done

>   * :ref:`lib_zigbee_zcl_scenes`:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  * :ref:`lib_zigbee_zcl_scenes` library:
```

Author: done

    * Updated the library, so that it is allowed to store empty scenes.

>   * :ref:`lib_zigbee_osif`:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  * :ref:`lib_zigbee_osif` library:
```

Author: done

    * Updated:

      * Crypto library used for performing software AES ecryption.
        Now, the :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_oberon_readme` is used instead of the Tinycrypt library.
      * Optimize calling ZBOSS API in |NCS| platform.
        If the ZBOSS API is called in the ZBOSS thread context, processing by the workqueue is now skipped.

>   * :ref:`lib_zigbee_fota`:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  * :ref:`lib_zigbee_fota` library:
```

Author: done

    * Added:

      * New :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_ZIGBEE_FOTA_SERVER_DISOVERY_INTERVAL_HRS` Kconfig option to configure the interval between queries for the Zigbee FOTA server.
      * New :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_ZIGBEE_FOTA_IMAGE_QUERY_INTERVAL_MIN` Kconfig option to configure the interval between queries for the available Zigbee FOTA images.
      * Support for the combined application and network core updates for the nRF5340 SoC.

    * Updated:

      * Download logic to use the :ref:`lib_dfu_multi_image` library API and image structure.
      * The image generation script by introducing the sub-element structure inside the Zigbee OTA image.

>         Enable :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_ZIGBEE_FOTA_GENERATE_LEGACY_IMAGE_TYPE` to generate images compatible with previous NCS releases.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
        Enable :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_ZIGBEE_FOTA_GENERATE_LEGACY_IMAGE_TYPE` to generate images compatible with previous |NCS| releases.
```

Author: done

      * Default value of the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_ZIGBEE_FOTA_IMAGE_TYPE` to 0x0141.
      * Setting of the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF53_ENFORCE_IMAGE_VERSION_EQUALITY` for nRF5340 SoC to ensure integrity of the upgrade image.

    * Removed:

      * The :c:enum:`ZIGBEE_FOTA_EVT_ERASE_PENDING` and :c:enum:`ZIGBEE_FOTA_EVT_ERASE_DONE` events.

  * Fixed:

    * An issue where printing binding table containing group-binding entries results in corrupted output.
    * An issue where Zigbee shell coordinator would not form a new network after the factory reset operation.

sdk-nrfxlib
-----------

See the changelog for each library in the :doc:`nrfxlib documentation <nrfxlib:README>` for additional information.

Scripts
=======

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`script <scripts>`.

* Added new ``west ncs-sbom`` command that generates :ref:`Software Bill of Materials <west_sbom>`.
* Added :ref:`bt_fast_pair_provision_script`.

MCUboot
=======

> The MCUboot fork in |NCS| (``sdk-mcuboot``) contains all commits from the upstream MCUboot repository up to and including ``e86f575f68fdac2cab1898e0a893c8c6d8fd0fa1``, plus some |NCS| specific additions.

Reviewer 6: The commit has to be verified.

Author: @carlescufi  @nvlsianpu  please verify MCUboot commit

Reviewer 5: The SHA is correct

The code for integrating MCUboot into |NCS| is located in the :file:`ncs/nrf/modules/mcuboot` folder.

The following list summarizes both the main changes inherited from upstream MCUboot and the main changes applied to the |NCS| specific additions:

* Added :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF53_ENFORCE_IMAGE_VERSION_EQUALITY` to attach the dependencies between application and network core images.
  This option links the upgrade images in such a way that either both or none is applied.
* Added support for the Dual-slot execute-in-place (XIP) feature in the |NCS| build system.
  See the :file:`ncs/nrf/tests/modules/mcuboot/direct_xip` test project for an example of how to leverage this feature in your application.

Zephyr
======

> The Zephyr fork in |NCS| (``sdk-zephyr``) contains all commits from the upstream Zephyr repository up to and including ``53fbf40227de087423620822feedde6c98f3d631``, plus some |NCS| specific additions.

Reviewer 6: The commit has to be verified.

Author: @carlescufi  please verify the Zephyr commit in this section

Reviewer 10: The commit SHA is correct.

Author: thanks

For the list of upstream Zephyr commits (not including cherry-picked commits) incorporated into |NCS| since the most recent release, run the following command from the :file:`ncs/zephyr` repository (after running ``west update``):

.. code-block:: none

   git log --oneline 53fbf40227 ^45ef0d2

For the list of |NCS| specific commits, including commits cherry-picked from upstream, run:

.. code-block:: none

   git log --oneline manifest-rev ^53fbf40227

The current |NCS| main branch is based on revision ``53fbf40227`` of Zephyr.

cddl-gen/zcbor
==============

.. note::
    In March 2022, cddl-gen has been renamed to zcbor.

The `zcbor`_ module has been updated from version 0.3.0 to 0.4.0.
Release notes for 0.4.0 can be found in :file:`ncs/nrf/modules/lib/zcbor/RELEASE_NOTES.md`.

The following major changes have been implemented:

> * Renamed "cddl-gen" to "zcbor" throughout the repo.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Renamed ``cddl-gen`` to ``zcbor`` throughout the repository.
```

Author: done

* Regenerated fmfu code from cddl.
* Added Kconfig options to control the zcbor configuration options.
* Updated tests to run with updated zcbor.

Trusted Firmware-M
==================

* Fixed:

  * NCSDK-13949 known issue where the TF-M Secure Image would copy FICR to RAM on nRF9160.

>   * NCSDK-12306 known issue where a usage fault would be triggered in the debug build on nRF9160.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  * NCSDK-12306 known issue where a usage fault would be triggered in the debug build on nRF9160 SiP.
```

Author: done

  * Replaced reference to Secure Partition Manager with reference to Trusted Firmware-M for multi-image project builds (nRF9160 samples) in :ref:`gs_programming`.
  * :ref:`gs_updating` with information about updating |VSC| and the toolchain.
  * :ref:`ug_nrf52` and :ref:`ug_nrf5340` with information about FOTA upgrades for Matter, Thread, and Zigbee.
  * :ref:`ug_matter_architecture` with updated protocol architecture diagram.
  * :ref:`app_memory` with sections for Matter and Zigbee.
  * :ref:`thread_ug_feature_updating_libs` to clarify the use, and added |VSC| instructions.
  * :ref:`ug_thread_communication` by moving it to a separate page instead of it being under :ref:`ug_thread_architectures`.
  * Added a note to several nRF Cloud samples using the `nRF Cloud REST API`_ indicating the need for valid and registered request signing credentials.
  * :ref:`thread_ot_memory` with definitions of variants listed on the tables.
  * :ref:`ug_nrf_cloud` with more information about security.
  * :ref:`software_maturity` with a table detailing the differences between supported and experimental features.
  * Working with Thingy:53 with new information, and renamed to :ref:`ug_thingy53`.

>   * nRF Desktop documentation with the following additions:
> 
> 	* Information about nRF21540EK shield support.
>     * Documentation for selective HID report subscription in :ref:`nrf_desktop_usb_state` using :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_USB_SELECTIVE_REPORT_SUBSCRIPTION <config_desktop_app_options>` option.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  * nRF Desktop documentation with the following additions:

     * Information about nRF21540EK shield support.
     * Documentation for selective HID report subscription in :ref:`nrf_desktop_usb_state` using :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_USB_SELECTIVE_REPORT_SUBSCRIPTION <config_desktop_app_options>` option.
```

Author: done

See :ref:`nrf9160_gs_updating_fw_modem` for instructions.

Modem-related libraries and versions
====================================

.. list-table:: Modem-related libraries and versions
   :widths: 15 10
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Library name
     - Version information
   * - Modem library
     - `Changelog <Modem library changelog for v2.0.0_>`_
   * - LwM2M carrier library
     - `Changelog <LwM2M carrier library changelog for v2.0.0_>`_

Known issues
************

Known issues are only tracked for the latest official release.
See `known issues for nRF Connect SDK v2.0.0`_ for the list of issues valid for the latest release.

Changelog
*********

The following sections provide detailed lists of changes by component.

Application development
=======================

* Fixed an issue with |NCS| Toolchain delimiter handling on MacOS, which could in special situations result in the build system not being able to properly locate the correct program needed.

Boards
======

* Added necessary reset functionality for using the nRF52840 SoC on the Thingy:91 as a Bluetooth controller.

> 

Reviewer 11: Could you please add this. Confirmed with @simensrostad. PR reference:  https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/7831#issuecomment-1141179316 

* :ref:`secure_partition_manager` is enabled by default for the applications and samples that supports Thingy:91.

Not sure whether this should be under this section.

Author: > Could you please add this. Confirmed with @simensrostad. PR reference: [#7831 (comment)](https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/7831#issuecomment-1141179316)
> 
> * :ref:`secure_partition_manager` is enabled by default for the applications and samples that supports Thingy:91.
> 
> Not sure whether this should be under this section.

I put it under 'nRF9160 samples -> updated' as the first buller point. @simensrostad please confirm this is fine.
``
* :ref:`secure_partition_manager` is enabled by default for the applications and samples that support Thingy:91 (rather than TF-M).
``

* The :ref:`thread_ot_memory` page shows requirements based on the configuration used for certification instead of minimal configuration, which has been removed.
* Updated the :ref:`ug_thread_tools_tbr_rcp` section in the :ref:`ug_thread_tools_tbr` page with the information about forcing Hardware Flow Control in J-Link.
* Updated nrfconnect/otbr docker.

See `Thread samples`_ for the list of changes for the Thread samples.

Zigbee
------

* Added:

  * Support for nRF5340 DK (PCA10095) in the :ref:`zigbee_light_switch_sample` sample with the :ref:`lib_zigbee_fota` library enabled.
  * Production support for Weather Station application for Thingy:53.

* Updated:

  * Support for Zigbee Cluster Library ver8 (ZCL8).
    The support is not experimental anymore.
  * Support for Zigbee Base Device Behavior v3.0.1 (BDB 3.0.1).
    The support is not experimental anymore.
  * :ref:`lib_zigbee_fota` library.
    For details, see `Libraries for Zigbee`_.
  * Zigbee Network Co-processor Host package to the new version v2.2.0.
  * :ref:`lib_zigbee_shell` library.
    For details, see `Libraries for Zigbee`_.

* Fixed:

>   * An issue where the :ref:`zigbee_light_bulb_sample` was flickering when set to 50 kHz.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  * An issue where the :ref:`zigbee_light_bulb_sample` sample was flickering when set to 50 kHz.
```

  * An issue with an assertion fail in :file:`/zephyr/include/spinlock.h:129`.
  * An issue where a wrong value was reported for attributes ``MinMeasuredvalue`` and ``MaxMeasuredValue`` in the Weather Station.
  * An issue with ZBOSS fatal error after factory reset and before bdb start.
  * An issue where the Coordinator did not form a new network after factory reset.
  * An issue with identifying when not in a network.
  * An issue with ZBOSS binding table corruption.
  * An issue where the Zigbee shell did not inform if the network address request was not sent.

See `Zigbee samples`_ for the list of changes for the Zigbee samples.

HomeKit
-------

* Added:

  * Production support for Thread 1.2.
  * Support for 3-button actions (long press, short press, double press).
  * LED indicating BLE connectivity status.
  * Development support for OTA-DFU using the iOS Home App (over UARP - BLE and Thread).

>   * LED output can be fully disabled using kconfig.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  * LED output can be fully disabled using Kconfig.
```

* Updated:

  * Flash usage optimization for debug versions of samples and applications.
  * DFU mode can now be enabled by a button press.
  * CLI is no longer required for DFU configuration.

>   * HAP_TESTING is now configurable using kConfig.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  * HAP_TESTING is now configurable using Kconfig.
```

  * :ref:`download_sample` sample:

    * Updated the default HTTPS URL and certificate due to the old link being broken.

  * :ref:`gnss_sample` sample:

    * Added support for the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PGPS_STORAGE_PARTITION` option.
    * Enabled the :ref:`lib_at_host` library to make it easier to update certificates.
    * Added support to calculate distance from a configured reference position.

  * :ref:`location_sample` sample:

    * Enabled the :ref:`lib_at_host` library to make it easier to update certificates.

* Removed the Cloud client sample.

Thread samples
--------------

* Updated:

  * Thread 1.2 version is now the default configuration option.
  * Thread Beacon payload has been removed after changes in the latest Thread Specification.
  * Minimal configuration for CLI sample has been removed.
  * BLE advertising interval has been increased from 100 ms to 300 ms for CLI sample when multiprotocol is enabled.
  * CoAP Client sample with Multiprotocol Bluetooth LE extension is now compatible with Bluetooth Central UART sample.

Matter samples
--------------

* Added release configuration for all samples.

> * Added the :ref:`matter_window_covering_sample` sample, based on the Matter upstream sample.

Reviewer 7: Could we extend this a bit, e.g.:

```suggestion
* Added the :ref:`matter_window_covering_sample` sample based on the Matter upstream sample. This sample utilizes Thread Synchronized Sleepy End Device role.
```

Author: done

The code for integrating MCUboot into |NCS| is located in the :file:`ncs/nrf/modules/mcuboot` folder.

The following list summarizes both the main changes inherited from upstream MCUboot and the main changes applied to the |NCS| specific additions:

* Added :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF53_ENFORCE_IMAGE_VERSION_EQUALITY` to attach the dependencies between application and network core images.
  This option links the upgrade images in such a way that either both or none is applied.
* Added support for the Dual-slot execute-in-place (XIP) feature in the |NCS| build system.
  See the :file:`ncs/nrf/tests/modules/mcuboot/direct_xip` test project for an example of how to leverage this feature in your application.
* boot_serial: Adapt to Zephyr's new CRC APIs (boot_serial implements the serial recovery),
* zephyr/boot_serial_extension: use ``BOOT_LOG`` instead of ``LOG_`` (boot_serial_extension implements the serial recovery extension).
* Loader was reworked so it allows larger minimum flash write size (was 8 B, became 32 B).
* boot_serial: zephyr: Add optional timeout to enter serial recovery.
* zephyr: Use a smaller sha256 implementation.

> * boot_serial: Added support for the echo command.

Reviewer 5: ,see ``CONFIG_BOOT_MGMT_ECHO``

    * The front-end module test parameters are not set to their default value after the DTM reset command.
    * Changed the radio antennas array hardware description.
      It is now based on the radio bindings instead of custom configuration.

  * :ref:`peripheral_hids_mouse` sample:

    * Increased the main stack size from 1024 to 1536 bytes.
    * Increased the stack size of the nRF RPC threads from 1024 to 1280 bytes.

  * :ref:`peripheral_uart` sample:

    * Fixed handling of RX buffer releasing in this sample and in the UARTE driver.
      Before this fix, the RX buffer might have been released twice by the main thread.

  * :ref:`central_uart` sample:

    * Fixed handling of RX buffer releasing in this sample and in the UARTE driver.
      Before this fix, the RX buffer might have been released twice by the main thread.
    * Added debug logs for the UART events.

  * :ref:`bluetooth_central_dfu_smp` sample:

    * Changed the current CBOR library from TinyCBOR to `zcbor`_.

  * :ref:`bluetooth-hci-lpuart-sample` sample:

    * Added support for Thingy:91.

  * :ref:`ble_nrf_dm` sample:

    * Added support for the nRF52832 device.

>   * :ref:`nrf_rpc_entropy_nrf53` sample:

Author: moved

--------------------------------

* Added:

  * :ref:`ams_client_readme` library.
  * :ref:`bt_fast_pair_readme`.

* Removed Alexa Gadgets Service library due to Amazon pausing support for the Gadgets ecosystem.

* Updated:

  * :ref:`gatt_dm_readme` library:

    * Added option to discover several service instances using the UUID.
    * Fixed discovery of empty services.

  * :ref:`bt_mesh` library:

    * Added:

      * :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_srv` context to the following API and callbacks:

        * :c:func:`sensor_column_encode` API.
        * :c:member:`get` and :c:member:`set` callbacks in :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_setting`.
        * :c:member:`get` callback in :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_series`.
        * :c:member:`get` callback in :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor`.

      * Shell commands for client models.

  * :ref:`ble_rpc` library:

    * Added host callback handlers for the ``write`` and ``match`` operations of the CCC descriptor.
    * Converted from TinyCBOR to `zcbor`_.

    * Fixed:

      * Serialization of the write callback applied to the GATT attribute.
      * Serialization of the :c:func:`bt_gatt_service_unregister` function call.

>   * :ref:`lib_ram_pwrdn` library:

Reviewer 6: This library belongs to Other libraries. Please move this.

        When this feature is enabled, the library tries to detect occurrences where getting a GNSS fix is unlikely or would consume a lot of energy.
        When such an occurrence is detected, GNSS is stopped without waiting for a fix or a timeout.
      * In addition to the current default fallback mode for acquiring a location, it can also be acquired using the :c:enum:`LOCATION_REQ_MODE_ALL` mode that runs all methods in the list sequentially.
        Each run method receives a location event, either a success or a failure.

    * Updated:

      * The :c:member:`request` member of the :c:struct:`location_event_data` structure renamed to :c:member:`agps_request`.
      * Current system time is attached to the ``location_datetime`` parameter of the location request response with Wi-Fi and cellular methods.
        The timestamp comes from the moment of scanning or neighbor measurements.
      * Removed dependency on the :ref:`lib_modem_jwt` library.
        The :ref:`lib_location` library now selects :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_REST_AUTOGEN_JWT` when using :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_REST`.

    * Removed:

       * Support for Skyhook.

>   * :ref:`lib_multicell_location` library:

Reviewer 6: Belongs to networking libraries, please move this.

      * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_MODEM_LIB_TRACE_THREAD_PROCESSING` to process modem traces in a thread (experimental).

    * Updated:

      * The modem fault handler's signature now takes a pointer as parameter to the :c:struct:`nrf_modem_fault_info` structure.
      * The modem fault handler callback is now configurable through the :c:struct:`nrf_modem_init_params_t` structure.
      * By default, the :c:func:`nrf_modem_fault_handler` function fault handler prints the modem fault.
        If any other handling is required, the :kconfig:option:`NRF_MODEM_LIB_ON_FAULT` Kconfig option must be set accordingly.

    * Deprecated the :c:func:`nrf_modem_lib_shutdown_wait` function, in favor of :c:macro:`NRF_MODEM_LIB_ON_INIT`.

  * :ref:`lte_lc_readme` library:

    * Added:

      * :c:macro:`LTE_LC_ON_CFUN` macro for compile-time registration of callbacks on modem functional mode changes using :c:func:`lte_lc_func_mode_set`.
      * Support for simple shell commands.

  * :ref:`lib_modem_attest_token` library:

    * CBOR parsing is now performed with the `zcbor`_ module.
      TinyCBOR is deprecated.

> * Removed the deprecated A-GPS library.

Reviewer 6: Also, doesn't this belong to networking section? @simensrostad

Reviewer 6: Is this referring to the removal of agps.h under include/modem?

Reviewer 6: Ok then it makes sense.

        * The use of the MCUboot secondary partition as storage, enabled with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PGPS_STORAGE_MCUBOOT_SECONDARY` option.
        * An application-specific storage, enabled with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PGPS_STORAGE_CUSTOM` option.

 * :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_agps` library:

    * Fixed premature assistance suppression when the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_AGPS_FILTERED` option is enabled.
      Added a 10 minute margin of error to ensure A-GPS assistance is downloaded every two hours even if the modem requests assistance a little early.

* Removed:

  * Cloud API library.

Libraries for NFC
-----------------

* Updated:

  * :ref:`nfc_ndef_parser_readme`:

    * Updated:

      * :c:func:`nfc_ndef_msg_parse` with a fix to the declaration, a new assertion to avoid a potential usage fault, and added a note in the API documentation.
      * ``NFC_NDEF_PARSER_REQUIRED_MEMO_SIZE_CALC`` macro has been renamed to :c:macro:`NFC_NDEF_PARSER_REQUIRED_MEM`.

Other libraries
---------------

* Added:

  * :ref:`event_manager_proxy` library.
  * :ref:`QoS` library.
  * :ref:`emds_readme` library.

>   * :ref:`lib_dfu_multi_image` library.

Reviewer 6: Should be under DFU libraries

        * :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_ON_SUBMIT_REGISTER`, :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_ON_SUBMIT_REGISTER_FIRST`, :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_ON_SUBMIT_REGISTER_LAST`
        * :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_PREPROCESS_REGISTER`, :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_PREPROCESS_REGISTER_FIRST`, :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_PREPROCESS_REGISTER_LAST`
        * :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_POSTPROCESS_REGISTER`, :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_POSTPROCESS_REGISTER_FIRST`, :c:macro:`APP_EVENT_HOOK_POSTPROCESS_REGISTER_LAST`

    * Updated:

      * Renamed Event Manager to Application Event Manager.

  * :ref:`app_event_manager_profiler_tracer`:

    * Updated:

      * The library is no longer directly referenced from the Application Event Manager.
        Instead, it uses the Application Event Manager hooks to connect with the manager.

  * :ref:`esb_readme`:

    * Fixed a compilation error for nRF52833.

  * :ref:`nrf_profiler`:

      * Renamed Profiler to nRF Profiler.
      * Updated versions of required python modules (pynrfjprog and matplotlib).

  * :ref:`ei_wrapper`:

      * Added :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_EI_WRAPPER_PROFILING` for logging time of classifier execution.

>   * :ref:`lib_dfu_target` library:

Reviewer 6: Should be under DFU libraries

Author: added DFU libraries section and moved

The code for integrating MCUboot into |NCS| is located in the :file:`ncs/nrf/modules/mcuboot` folder.

The following list summarizes both the main changes inherited from upstream MCUboot and the main changes applied to the |NCS| specific additions:

* Added :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF53_ENFORCE_IMAGE_VERSION_EQUALITY` to attach the dependencies between application and network core images.
  This option links the upgrade images in such a way that either both or none is applied.
* Added support for the Dual-slot execute-in-place (XIP) feature in the |NCS| build system.
  See the :file:`ncs/nrf/tests/modules/mcuboot/direct_xip` test project for an example of how to leverage this feature in your application.
* boot_serial: Adapt to Zephyr's new CRC APIs (boot_serial implements the serial recovery),
* zephyr/boot_serial_extension: use ``BOOT_LOG`` instead of ``LOG_`` (boot_serial_extension implements the serial recovery extension).
* Loader was reworked so it allows larger minimum flash write size (was 8 B, became 32 B).
* boot_serial: zephyr: Add optional timeout to enter serial recovery.
  See :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BOOT_SERIAL_WAIT_FOR_DFU`.

> * zephyr: Use a smaller sha256 implementation.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* zephyr: Use a smaller SHA-256 implementation.
```

* boot_serial: Added support for the echo command.
  See :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BOOT_MGMT_ECHO`.

> * single loader: fixed image decryption for any SoC flash of the pages size which not fitted in 1024 B.

Reviewer 6: slight rework of the sentence..may be?
```suggestion
* single loader: fixed image decryption for any SoC flash of the pages with size not fitting in 1024 B.
```

  See :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BOOT_SERIAL_WAIT_FOR_DFU`.
* zephyr: Use a smaller SHA-256 implementation.
* boot_serial: Added support for the echo command.
  See :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BOOT_MGMT_ECHO`.
* single loader: fixed image decryption for any SoC flash of the pages with size not fitting in 1024 B.
* Removed deprecated ``DT_CHOSEN_ZEPHYR_FLASH_CONTROLLER_LABEL``.
* Fixed usage of ``CONFIG_LOG_IMMEDIATE``.

Zephyr
======

The Zephyr fork in |NCS| (``sdk-zephyr``) contains all commits from the upstream Zephyr repository up to and including ``53fbf40227de087423620822feedde6c98f3d631``, plus some |NCS| specific additions.

For the list of upstream Zephyr commits (not including cherry-picked commits) incorporated into |NCS| since the most recent release, run the following command from the :file:`ncs/zephyr` repository (after running ``west update``):

.. code-block:: none

   git log --oneline 53fbf40227 ^45ef0d2

For the list of |NCS| specific commits, including commits cherry-picked from upstream, run:

.. code-block:: none

   git log --oneline manifest-rev ^53fbf40227

The current |NCS| main branch is based on revision ``53fbf40227`` of Zephyr.

> cddl-gen/zcbor

Reviewer 12: This section is slightly "outdated", since after this was done, zcbor was also added to Zephyr, and subsequently brought into NCS via upmerge, but this shift should have been invisible to users. We could add a note that "zcbor is now provided via Zephyr instead of directly via NCS" or something.

Author: added

  This is needed to prevent Bluetooth Link Layer scheduling issues.
* Removed configurations without a bootloader.
  The B0 bootloader is enabled by default on all boards if the configuration with two image slots fits in memory.
  Alternatively, MCUboot bootloader with a single image slot and serial recovery is enabled.
  In case the configuration with the MCUboot does not fit in memory, no bootloader is enabled.

Thingy:53 Zigbee weather station
--------------------------------

* Added new :ref:`zigbee_weather_station_app` application.
* Fixed an issue where the buffer was being freed incorrectly.

Samples
=======

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`sample <sample>`, including protocol-related samples.
For lists of protocol-specific changes, see `Protocols`_.

Bluetooth samples
-----------------

* Added:

  * :ref:`peripheral_ams_client` sample.
  * :ref:`peripheral_fast_pair` sample.
    See :ref:`ug_bt_fast_pair` for details about this feature.

* Removed Peripheral Alexa Gadgets Bluetooth sample due to Amazon pausing support for the Gadgets ecosystem.

> * Updated:
> 
>   * :ref:`direct_test_mode` sample:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :ref:`direct_test_mode` sample:
```
I thought we agreed to remove the Updated bullet point for lines where bullet points are pointing to specific sample or library. Global edit.

Author: done globally

      It is now based on the radio bindings instead of custom configuration.

  * :ref:`peripheral_hids_mouse` sample:

    * Increased the main stack size from 1024 to 1536 bytes.
    * Increased the stack size of the nRF RPC threads from 1024 to 1280 bytes.

  * :ref:`peripheral_uart` sample:

    * Fixed handling of RX buffer releasing in this sample and in the UARTE driver.
      Before this fix, the RX buffer might have been released twice by the main thread.

  * :ref:`central_uart` sample:

    * Fixed handling of RX buffer releasing in this sample and in the UARTE driver.
      Before this fix, the RX buffer might have been released twice by the main thread.
    * Added debug logs for the UART events.

  * :ref:`bluetooth_central_dfu_smp` sample:

    * Changed the current CBOR library from TinyCBOR to `zcbor`_.

  * :ref:`bluetooth-hci-lpuart-sample` sample:

    * Added support for Thingy:91.

  * :ref:`ble_nrf_dm` sample:

    * Added support for the nRF52832 device.

  * :ref:`peripheral_ancs_client` sample:

    * Fixed handling of the empty Generic Attribute Service.

Bluetooth mesh samples
----------------------

> * Updated:
> 
>   * All samples to use the :ref:`partition_manager`, replacing the use of the Device Tree Source flash partitions.
>   * :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_sensor_server` sample:
> 
>     * Definitions for sensor callbacks now include the :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_srv` context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Updated all samples to use the :ref:`partition_manager`, replacing the use of the Device Tree Source flash partitions.
* :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_sensor_server` sample:

  * Definitions for sensor callbacks now include the :c:struct:`bt_mesh_sensor_srv` context.
```

  * :ref:`lte_sensor_gateway` sample:

    * Added support for Thingy:91.

  * :ref:`lwm2m_client` sample:

    * Added:

      * Minimal Portfolio object support that is required for LwM2M conformance testing.
      * Support for using :ref:`location_assistance` with Coiote LwM2M server.
      * Guidelines on :ref:`setting up the sample for production <lwm2m_client_provisioning>` using AVSystem’s Coiote Device Management server.

    * Updated:

      * Reworked the retry logic so that the sample can fall back to bootstrap mode and need not always restart the LTE connection.
      * Replaced the deprecated GPS driver with the new GNSS interface.
      * LwM2M v1.1 uses SenML CBOR by default as content format.

  * :ref:`download_sample` sample:

    * Updated the default HTTPS URL and certificate due to the old link being broken.

  * :ref:`gnss_sample` sample:

    * Added support for the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PGPS_STORAGE_PARTITION` option.
    * Enabled the :ref:`lib_at_host` library to make it easier to update certificates.
    * Added support to calculate distance from a configured reference position.

  * :ref:`location_sample` sample:

>     * Enabled the :ref:`lib_at_host` library to make it easier to update certificates.

Author: Done.

  * Zigbee device definition for each Zigbee sample and application.
  * Support for nRF5340 DK (PCA10095) in :ref:`Zigbee light switch sample <zigbee_light_switch_sample>` with :ref:` Zigbee FOTA library <lib_zigbee_fota>` enabled.

* Updated:

  * :ref:`Zigbee shell library <lib_zigbee_shell>`.
    For details, see `Libraries for Zigbee`_.
  * Return code in the ZCL callbacks from :c:macro:`RET_ERROR` to :c:macro:`RET_NOT_IMPLEMENTED` if the device does not handle the ZCL command.
  * Enabled the ZCL8 compatibility mode :c:macro:`ZB_ZCL_AUTO_MODE` inside the :c:func:`zigbee_default_signal_handler`.
  * Production version of :ref:`nrfxlib:zboss` from v3.11.1.0 to v3.11.2.0 and platform v5.1.2 (``v3.11.2.0+v5.1.2``).
  * Development version of :ref:`nrfxlib:zboss` from v3.11.1.177 to v3.12.1.0 and platform v5.2.0 (``v3.12.1.0+v5.2.0``).
  * :ref:`ZBOSS Network Co-processor Host <ug_zigbee_tools_ncp_host>` package to the new version v2.2.0.
  * Unused RAM sections are now enabled before entering bootloader from the Zigbee application.
  * :ref:` Zigbee FOTA library <lib_zigbee_fota>`.
    For details, see `Libraries for Zigbee`_.

> 

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
Boards
======

* Added necessary reset functionality for using the nRF52840 SoC on the Thingy:91 as a BT controller.

```

Author: added

* Increased the value of :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_POWER_MANAGER_TIMEOUT` to 30 seconds for Thingy:53.

nRF Desktop
-----------

* Added documentation for selective HID report subscription in :ref:`nrf_desktop_usb_state` using the :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_USB_SELECTIVE_REPORT_SUBSCRIPTION <config_desktop_app_options>` option.

* Removed configurations without a bootloader.
  The B0 bootloader is enabled by default on all boards if the configuration with two image slots fits in memory.
  Alternatively, MCUboot bootloader with a single image slot and serial recovery is enabled.
  In case the configuration with MCUboot does not fit in memory, no bootloader is enabled.

Thingy:53 Zigbee weather station
--------------------------------

* Added new :ref:`zigbee_weather_station_app` application.
* Fixed an issue where the buffer was being freed incorrectly.

Samples
=======

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`sample <sample>`, including protocol-related samples.
For lists of protocol-specific changes, see `Protocols`_.

Bluetooth samples
-----------------

* Added the :ref:`peripheral_ams_client` sample.

* Updated:

  * :ref:`direct_test_mode` sample:

>     * Updated:

Reviewer 14: I think this line can be removed

Author: done

>       * The front-end module test parameters are not set to their default value after the DTM reset command anymore.

Reviewer 14: Please remove this line as this is a duplicate of line 253

Author: done

>       * Added the vendor-specific ``FEM_DEFAULT_PARAMS_SET`` command for restoring the default front-end module parameters.

Reviewer 14: Please remove this line as this is a duplicate of line 254

>       * Added possibility to build with the limited nRF21540 front-end module hardware pinout.

Reviewer 14: Please remove indentation and any needless blank lines after removing the `Updated:` statement from line 246.

Author: done

    * Fixed handling of the disable Constant Tone Extension command.
    * The front-end module test parameters are not set to their default value after the DTM reset command.
    * Added the vendor-specific ``FEM_DEFAULT_PARAMS_SET`` command for restoring the default front-end module parameters.
    * Changed the radio antennas array hardware description.
      It is based now on the radio bindings instead of a custom configuration.

  * :ref:`peripheral_hids_mouse` sample:

    * Increased the main stack size from 1024 to 1536 bytes.
    * Increased the stack size of the nRF RPC threads from 1024 to 1280 bytes.

  * :ref:`peripheral_uart` sample:

    * Fixed handling of RX buffer releasing in this sample and in the UARTE driver.
      Before this fix, the RX buffer might have been released twice by the main thread.

  * :ref:`central_uart` sample:

    * Added debug logs for the UART events.
    * Fixed handling of RX buffer releasing in this sample and in the UARTE driver.
      Before this fix, the RX buffer might have been released twice by the main thread.
    
  * :ref:`bluetooth_central_dfu_smp` sample:

    * Changed the current CBOR library from TinyCBOR to `zcbor`_.

> 

Reviewer 14: Please add:
```
* :ref:ble_nrf_dm`` sample:

  * Added support for the nRF52832 device.

```
as per https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/7575

Author: done

> 

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion

* :ref:`bluetooth-hci-lpuart-sample` sample:

  * Added support for Thingy:91.
```

Author: done

      * Minimal Portfolio object support that is required for LwM2M conformance testing.
      * Support for using :ref:`location_assistance` with Coiote LwM2M server.
      * Guidelines on :ref:`setting up the sample for production <lwm2m_client_provisioning>` using AVSystem’s Coiote Device Management server.
      * :ref:`state_diagram` to the sample documentation.

    * Updated:

      * Reworked the retry logic so that the sample can fall back to bootstrap mode and need not always restart the LTE connection.
      * Replaced the deprecated GPS-driver with the new GNSS interface.
      * LwM2M v1.1 uses SenML CBOR by default as content format.

  * :ref:`download_sample` sample:

    * Updated the default HTTPS URL and certificate due to the old link being broken.

  * :ref:`gnss_sample` sample:

    * Added support for the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PGPS_STORAGE_PARTITION` option.
    * Enabled the :ref:`lib_at_host` library to make it easier to update certificates.
    * Added support to calculate distance from a configured reference position.

  * :ref:`location_sample` sample:

    * Enabled the :ref:`lib_at_host` library to make it easier to update certificates.

> 

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion

* :ref:`lte_sensor_gateway` sample:

  * Added support for Thingy:91.
```

Author: done

      * New :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_ZIGBEE_FOTA_IMAGE_QUERY_INTERVAL_MIN` Kconfig option to configure the interval between queries for the available Zigbee FOTA images.
      * Support for the combined application and network core updates for the nRF5340 SoC.

    * Updated:

      * Download logic to use the :ref:`lib_dfu_multi_image` library API and image structure.
      * The image generation script by introducing the sub-element structure inside the Zigbee OTA image.
        Enable :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_ZIGBEE_FOTA_GENERATE_LEGACY_IMAGE_TYPE` to generate images compatible with previous NCS releases.
      * Default value of the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_ZIGBEE_FOTA_IMAGE_TYPE` to 0x0141.

    * Removed:

      * The :c:enum:`ZIGBEE_FOTA_EVT_ERASE_PENDING` and :c:enum:`ZIGBEE_FOTA_EVT_ERASE_DONE` events.

  * Fixed:

    * An issue where printing binding table containing group-binding entries resulted in corrupted output.
    * An issue where Zigbee shell coordinator would not form a new network after the factory reset operation.

sdk-nrfxlib
-----------

See the changelog for each library in the :doc:`nrfxlib documentation <nrfxlib:README>` for additional information.

> 

Author: No, but nothing has been added in the changelog. I will ping the maintainers of these libs.

The current |NCS| main branch is based on revision ``53fbf40227`` of Zephyr.

cddl-gen/zcbor
==============

.. note::
    In March 2022, cddl-gen has been renamed to zcbor.

The `zcbor`_ module has been updated from version 0.3.0 to 0.4.0.
Release notes for 0.4.0 can be found in :file:`ncs/nrf/modules/lib/zcbor/RELEASE_NOTES.md`.

The following major changes have been implemented:

* Renamed "cddl-gen" to "zcbor" throughout the repo.
* Regenerated fmfu code from cddl.
* Added Kconfig options to control the zcbor configuration options.
* Updated tests to run with updated zcbor.

Trusted Firmware-M
==================

* Fixed:

  * NCSDK-13949 known issue where the TF-M Secure Image would copy FICR to RAM on nRF9160.
  * NCSDK-12306 known issue where a usage fault would be triggered in the debug build on nRF9160.
  * NCSDK-14015 known issue that would cause crash during boot when the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_RPMSG_SERVICE` Kconfig option is enabled on the nRF5340 SoC.

cJSON
=====

* Fixed an issue with floats in the cJSON module when using NEWLIB_LIBC without the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NEWLIB_LIBC_FLOAT_PRINTF` Kconfig option.

Documentation
=============

* Added:

>   * Documentation for :ref:`debugging of nRF5340 <debugging>` in :ref:`working with nRF5340 DK<ug_nrf5340>` user guide.

Reviewer 15: Added the Security page:
```suggestion
  * New :ref:`security` page on the top level, with a brief introduction to core security features available in Nordic Semiconductor products.
```

Author: done
